# Text Chat

Side project to keep me sane. This project is an example of how ftp can be used to use different hosts to hold small 'chatroom' like text documents, and how they can be used alongside software to create a chatroom like client. That being said, the software also allows for LAN based chatrooms with a secure databse login for users (it hashes stuff so thats pretty cool). 

This project also goes to show that the directories and support files (the database) required for it to run correctly can be autogenerated when not found (say if someone moved the application file) and database objects such as tables and fields can be created automagically.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes, but to be honest it's pretty much only going to be used for fun. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

Firstly, you should at least have and know how to operate a computer system running Windows 7 or later, because who in 2018 is using anything below 7 (Obviously besides the NHS lol).

To install the software, you should probably run the installer from the installer folder in the zip from here, or be a cool kid and download the source code and run it from Visual Studio (Warning, my code won't make you angry, but it will make you disappointed). 

Once the exe is available to you, run it and the rest is pretty self explanatory. Lets be honest though, you're reading this because something went wrong. If you're the type of person to go this far trying to find a solution, just read my comments in the source code they explain plenty of what can go wrong. 

### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them, but you already know that because you're reading the README file so you must know your stuff.

```
As far as I can remember, the only Prerequisite beisdes common sense and Windows OS is Microsoft Access 2010 or later (Don't hate on me, I couldn't figure out how to use regualar, good, database file formats okay!)
```

### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you have to get the software installed

Run the installer:

```
Probably just give it a filepath to install to or execute the installer / application itself (If compiled via source code, you nerd) in the desired path.
```

For LAN's / WAN's

```
Run the installer in a network location accessible by all
Must be Read/Write enabled!
```

## Running the tests

This bit will explain how to run the automated tests for this system

### The only tests you can do 

```
Try and break it.
Seriously, if you want to test it (God knows why) I won't stop you.
Just know you're going to be disgusted with my error handling.
To test it, read the source code (there's gotta be errors in there) and try to break it.
```

## Built With

* [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) - The IDE used
* [VB.Net](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/visual-basic/) - Visual Basic (I know, I know)

## Contributing

There will be no contributing on this. If you want to change it, go for it I don't care who uses my source code.

If, by some grace of God, this is useful to anyone, please consider recommending to a friend (They'll hate you after though) and check out my other public repos (They aren't all this bad don't worry)

## Versioning

I don't do versioning - check the commits if you're interested I guess.

## Authors

* **Niall Askin** - *All work* - [Naskin99](https://github.com/Naskin99)


## License

This project has no licenses, I don't take this project (or most) too seriously if you can't already see, just enjoy the free code!

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to people who helped

* Probably Oliver Dunk, [Oliverdunk](https://github.com/oliverdunk) - helped with SQL injection stuff and general advice
